Add examples for introducing extensions (#3572)
skyportal/skyportal: doc/extensions.md

# SkyPortal Extensions

> It is common for specific instances of SkyPortal to employ ``extensions,'' which use added components and APIs not available in the baseline app, usually because of particular forms of data access and distribution. Some examples include [Fritz](https://github.com/fritz-marshal/fritz) or [SkyPortal-GRANDMA](https://github.com/grandma-collaboration/icare).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is common for specific instances of SkyPortal to employ "extensions", which use added components and APIs not available in the baseline app, usually because of particular forms of data access and distribution. Some examples include [Fritz](https://github.com/fritz-marshal/fritz) or [SkyPortal-GRANDMA](https://github.com/grandma-collaboration/icare).
```

For the APIs, they will have a folder: extensions/skyportal/skyportal/handlers/api

> For the ducks, they will have a folder: extensions/skyportal/static/js/ducks

Reviewer: Ducks are probably unknown to people, so not sure what to say here. Maybe:

```suggestion
For redux, they will have a folder: extensions/skyportal/static/js/ducks
```

For the components, they will have a folder: extensions/skyportal/static/js/components

> When deploying, each of these folders are copied into skyportal in their corresponding folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When deploying, files are copied into each of these SkyPortal folders from your repository.
```

> For the APIs in particular, a dedicated app_server.py needs to be created. To deploy, it will take a form similar to [this](https://github.com/fritz-marshal/fritz/blob/main/extensions/skyportal/skyportal/app_server_fritz.py), where in addition to the baseline application loaded with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For APIs in particular, a dedicated `app_server.py` needs to be created. To deploy, it will take a form similar to [this](https://github.com/fritz-marshal/fritz/blob/main/extensions/skyportal/skyportal/app_server_fritz.py), where in addition to the baseline application loaded with
```

And then you also need something like this to show how to hook up the factory:

> This is known as the "app factory", and is configured in the `config.yaml` as follows.

```from skyportal.app_server import make_app```

> specific handlers are added like (taking Fritz as an example):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Custom handlers are added as follows (taking Fritz as an example):
```

```
from skyportal.handlers.api.alert import (
    AlertHandler,
    AlertAuxHandler,
    AlertCutoutHandler,
    AlertTripletsHandler,
)
from skyportal.handlers.api.archive import (
    ArchiveCatalogsHandler,
    ArchiveHandler,
    CrossMatchHandler,
)
from skyportal.handlers.api.kowalski_filter import KowalskiFilterHandler
from skyportal.handlers.api.tns_info import TNSInfoHandler

fritz_handlers = [
    # Fritz-specific API endpoints
    # Alerts
    (r"/api/alerts(/.+)?", AlertHandler),
    (r"/api/alerts_aux(/.+)?", AlertAuxHandler),
    (r"/api/alerts_cutouts(/.+)?", AlertCutoutHandler),
    (r"/api/alerts_triplets(/.+)?", AlertTripletsHandler),
    # Archive
    (r"/api/archive", ArchiveHandler),
    (r"/api/archive/catalogs", ArchiveCatalogsHandler),
    (r"/api/archive/cross_match", CrossMatchHandler),
    # Alert Stream filter versioning via K:
    (r"/api/filters/([0-9]+)?/v", KowalskiFilterHandler),
    (r"/api/tns_info/(.*)", TNSInfoHandler),
]
```

and then those handlers are added to the baseline app:

```
    app = make_app(cfg, baselayer_handlers, baselayer_settings, process, env)
    app.add_handlers(r".*", fritz_handlers)  # match any host
```

> For the components, we also have specific ``Plug Ins,'' where specific components can be added to extend individual pages. These are currently available on the Source Page (SourcePlugins.jsx), Candidates Page (CandidatePlugins.jsx), Filters Page (FilterPlugins.jsx) and About Page (AboutPlugins.jsx).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For certain Javascript components we also have "Plugins", through which functionality can be added to extend those pages. These are currently available on the Source (`SourcePlugins.jsx`), Candidates (`CandidatePlugins.jsx`), Filters (`FilterPlugins.jsx`), and About (`AboutPlugins.jsx`) pages.
```

> Finally, extra entries can be added directly in the config.yaml as needed for these extensions. Taking fritz as an example again, access information for kowalski and gloria is added to the config:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Settings for extensions can be specified in the `config.yaml`. Taking fritz as an example again, here is a segment that configures `kowalski`:
```

```
  kowalski:
    protocol: https
    host: kowalski.caltech.edu
    port: 443
    token: YOUR_TOKEN_HERE

> 
>   gloria:
>     protocol: https
>     host: gloria.caltech.edu
>     port: 443
>     token: YOUR_TOKEN_HERE

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Your extension can read the configuration as follows:

...
```

Reviewer: (show how to use load_env)

    AlertCutoutHandler,
    AlertTripletsHandler,
)
from skyportal.handlers.api.archive import (
    ArchiveCatalogsHandler,
    ArchiveHandler,
    CrossMatchHandler,
)
from skyportal.handlers.api.kowalski_filter import KowalskiFilterHandler
from skyportal.handlers.api.tns_info import TNSInfoHandler

fritz_handlers = [
    # Fritz-specific API endpoints
    # Alerts
    (r"/api/alerts(/.+)?", AlertHandler),
    (r"/api/alerts_aux(/.+)?", AlertAuxHandler),
    (r"/api/alerts_cutouts(/.+)?", AlertCutoutHandler),
    (r"/api/alerts_triplets(/.+)?", AlertTripletsHandler),
    # Archive
    (r"/api/archive", ArchiveHandler),
    (r"/api/archive/catalogs", ArchiveCatalogsHandler),
    (r"/api/archive/cross_match", CrossMatchHandler),
    # Alert Stream filter versioning via K:
    (r"/api/filters/([0-9]+)?/v", KowalskiFilterHandler),
    (r"/api/tns_info/(.*)", TNSInfoHandler),
]
```

and then those handlers are added to the baseline app:

```
    app = make_app(cfg, baselayer_handlers, baselayer_settings, process, env)
    app.add_handlers(r".*", fritz_handlers)  # match any host
```

This is known as the "app factory", and is configured in the config.yaml as follows.

> 

Reviewer 2: Maybe add a sentence telling what is this code snippet:

Reviewer: App factory description is still missing, FWIW, presumably Michael is working on it.

Author: yeah slowly adding stuff.
